CS50 Final Project: Documentation
Doug Smith, Jake Cui, Jenny Huang

This project is called Volatility.  Its aim is to automate volume adjustment
while playing music, specifically on YouTube. It is a Chrome extension that
adjusts the volume of YouTube videos in Chrome based upon the ambient noise of
a user's surroundings or whether talking is detected, depending upon the mode
selected.

To install this extension, download the source code and open up chrome.  Go to
"chrome://extensions/", and check "Developer Mode" on the top right corner of
the page if it is not already checked.  Now, select "Load unpacked extension..."
and when the popup appears, navigate to the folder that contains the source code
and click "select".  You have now installed the Volatility extension, and its
icon should appear to the right of the address/search bar in the extension bar.

To use the Volatility extension, click on its icon in the extension bar and
when the popup appears, select "Open Volatility". A new tab should now open in
chrome that is the Volatility dashboard.  This webpage needs to be open whenever
you want Volatility to automatically adjust the volume.  Otherwise, the
extension cannot access microphone input.  When loaded, the page will request to
access the microphone. Click allow so that Volatility can work properly.
Volatility is now set up to work properly.

Once you have opened the Volatility webpage, to have Volatility dynamically
adjust volume, open any YouTube video and click play.  On the YouTube page, the
volume slider of the video will not adjust, but the volume is adjusting based
upon ambient noise or speech detection.  To see the current volume, either
look at the progress bar on the Volatility webpage or look at the console of the
current YouTube page.

Now, I will give a brief description of the settings at the bottom of the
Volatility page.

Focus Mode: This mode adjusts volume based upon ambient noise levels.  It can
be enabled by setting the "Mode" toggle to "Focus".

Talking Mode: This mode adjusts volume based upon speech detection.  It can be
enabled by setting the "Mode" toggle to "Talking".

Minimum Volume: This is the minimum volume that Volatility will adjust to.  In
Talking Mode, this is the volume the video will adjust to when speech is
detected.

Maximum Volume: This is the maximum value that Volatility will adjust to. For
instance, setting the maximum volume to 50 will cause the volume output of all
videos to be no greater than 50.

Sensitivity: This value determines how much the ambient noise level will affect
output volume level.  Any value less than 1 lowers the sensitivity while any
value greater than 1 raises the sensitivity.  The recommended range of values
for this setting is 0 to 2.

Desired Volume: This is the desired volume that the user wants.  The Volatility
algorithm will based its volume calculations off of this and the ambient noise
level or speech detection.  In talking mode, this is the volume that will be
used when no speech is detected.
